bun: init configHook & fetchDeps (#376299)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/languages-frameworks/javascript.section.md

  bunRoot = "frontend";
}
```

#### Bun workspaces {#javascript-bun-workspaces}

If you need to use a Bun workspace for your project, then set `bunWorkspaces = [ "<workspace project name 1>" "<workspace project name 2>" ]`, etc, in your `bun.fetchDeps` call,
which will make Bun only install dependencies for those workspace packages.

For example:

```nix
{
  #...
  bunWorkspaces = [ "@astrojs/language-server" ];
  bunDeps = bun.fetchDeps {
    inherit (finalAttrs) bunWorkspaces;
    #...
  };
}
```

The above would make `bun.fetchDeps` call only install dependencies for the `@astrojs/language-server` workspace package.
Note that you do not need to set `sourceRoot` to make this work.

Usually in such cases, you'd want to use `bun --filter=<bun workspace name> build` to build your project, as `npmHooks.npmBuildHook` probably won't work. A `buildPhase` based on the following example will probably fit most workspace projects:

```nix
{
  buildPhase = ''
    runHook preBuild

    bun --filter=@astrojs/language-server build

    runHook postBuild
  '';
}
```

#### Additional Bun Commands and settings {#javascript-bun-extraCommands}

> If you require setting an additional Bun configuration setting (such as `--dry-run` or similar),

Reviewer: Commands are linux binaries, some special bash expressions and bash functions. Arguments are extra options you pass into a preceding command that don't make sense on their own. 

An argument can not live without a command?

At least I beleave the final command output would look something like this:
```sh
--dry-run

bun install \
  --freeze-lockfile
  --cpu=*
.....
```

--dry-run on it's own ist't an expression that should be executable on its own.

> If you require setting an additional Bun configuration setting (such as `--dry-run` or similar),

Author: > a possible example could be a command that makes changes to the bun lock file.

This is currently not possible due to https://github.com/oven-sh/bun/issues/7140.

> If you require setting an additional Bun configuration setting (such as `--dry-run` or similar),

Reviewer: It could honestly just be something like a sed command or something else to change dep versions and the like.

```nix
prePnpmInstall = ''

> pnpm config set dedupe-peer-dependants false

Reviewer 2: This was fine where it was

In this example, `prePnpmInstall` will be run by both `pnpm.configHook` and by the `pnpm.fetchDeps` builder.

### Bun {#javascript-bun}

Bun based projects use a `bun.lock` file instead of a `package-lock.json` to pin dependencies. Nixpkgs provides a hooks below to for install dependacies via `bun.configHook` which configuates the project to install via the use of `bunDeps` before building the project.

```nix
{
  stdenv,
  bun
}:

stdenv.mkDerivation (finalAttrs: {
  pname = "foo";
  version = "0-unstable-1980-01-01";

  src = ...;

  nativeBuildInputs = [
    bun.configHook
  ];

  bunDeps = bun.fetchDeps {
    inherit (finalAttrs) pname version src;
    hash = "...";
  };
})

```

`bun.configHook` supports additional flags to `bun install` via `bunInstallFlags`

```nix
{

>   bun,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  stdenv,
  bun,
```
Nit

In this example, `prePnpmInstall` will be run by both `pnpm.configHook` and by the `pnpm.fetchDeps` builder.

### Bun {#javascript-bun}

> Bun based projects use a `bun.lock` file instead of a `package-lock.json` to pin dependencies. Nixpkgs provides a hooks below to for install dependacies via `bun.configHook` which configuates the project to install via the use of `bunDeps` before building the project.

Reviewer 3: Typo - "configuates"

Author: Good nit pick, I will fix that asap, I need to rebase the pr.

  ...
  bunDeps = bun.fetchDeps {
    ...
    sourceRoot = "${finalAttrs.src.name}/frontend";
  };

  # by default the working directory is the extracted source
  bunRoot = "frontend";
```

#### Bun workspaces {#javascript-bun-workspaces}

If you need to use a Bun workspace for your project, then set `bunWorkspaces = [ "<workspace project name 1>" "<workspace project name 2>" ]`, etc, in your `bun.fetchDeps` call,
which will make Bun only install dependencies for those workspace packages.

For example:

```nix
...
bunWorkspaces = [ "@astrojs/language-server" ];
bunDeps = bun.fetchDeps {
  inherit (finalAttrs) pnpmWorkspaces;
  ...
}
```

The above would make `bun.fetchDeps` call only install dependencies for the `@astrojs/language-server` workspace package.
Note that you do not need to set `sourceRoot` to make this work.

Usually in such cases, you'd want to use `bun --filter=<bun workspace name> build` to build your project, as `npmHooks.npmBuildHook` probably won't work. A `buildPhase` based on the following example will probably fit most workspace projects:

```nix
buildPhase = ''
  runHook preBuild

  bun --filter=@astrojs/language-server build

  runHook postBuild
'';
```

> #### Additional PNPM Commands and settings {#javascript-bun-extraCommands}

Reviewer 4: PNPM should be swapped out here

Author: Good nit pick I still need to do this section as it's the exact same as pnpm.

- 2: [Ensure consistent permissions](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/422975)
- 3: [Build a reproducible tarball](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/469950)

### Bun {#javascript-bun}

> Bun based projects use a `bun.lock` file instead of a `package-lock.json` to pin dependencies. Nixpkgs provides a hooks below to for install dependacies via `bun.configHook` which configures the project to install via the use of `bunDeps` before building the project.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Bun based projects use a `bun.lock` file instead of a `package-lock.json` to pin dependencies. Nixpkgs provides a hooks below to install dependencies via `bun.configHook`, which configures the project to install dependencies through `bunDeps` before building the project.
```

  bunRoot = "frontend";
}
```

#### Bun workspaces {#javascript-bun-workspaces}

If you need to use a Bun workspace for your project, then set `bunWorkspaces = [ "<workspace project name 1>" "<workspace project name 2>" ]`, etc, in your `bun.fetchDeps` call,
which will make Bun only install dependencies for those workspace packages.

For example:

```nix
{
  #...
  bunWorkspaces = [ "@astrojs/language-server" ];
  bunDeps = bun.fetchDeps {
    inherit (finalAttrs) bunWorkspaces;
    #...
  };
}
```

The above would make `bun.fetchDeps` call only install dependencies for the `@astrojs/language-server` workspace package.
Note that you do not need to set `sourceRoot` to make this work.

Usually in such cases, you'd want to use `bun --filter=<bun workspace name> build` to build your project, as `npmHooks.npmBuildHook` probably won't work. A `buildPhase` based on the following example will probably fit most workspace projects:

```nix
{
  buildPhase = ''
    runHook preBuild

    bun --filter=@astrojs/language-server build

    runHook postBuild
  '';
}
```

#### Dealing with CPU/OS specific dependencies {#javascript-bun-oscpu}

> Some bun dependencies may require OS or CPU architecture specific dependency variations. With the `os` and `cpu` attributes in `fetchDeps`, you can specify which to fetch. By default the fetcher will get all CPU architectures for linux, darwin and freebsd.

Author: @kuflierl has clear explanation to this problem, Thank you @kuflierl. @pyrox0 You do bring a good point of hey we will have to fetch all the hashes if we start including all of the platforms. But at the same time you will have to do that, because your targeting a specific platform.
